# Asexual vs Sexual Reproductive Evolution and Selection Occuring on Repetivive Histone Genes
Our understanding of asexual vs sexual reproduction and evolution has developed significantly in the past decades. However, with every eukaryote sequenced, new genomic structures and questions arise. With the sequencing of in Potamopyrgus antipodarum, a New Zealand freshwater snail, high numbers of repetitive histone genes were observed in asexual lineages compared to sexual lineages. How does asexual reproduction affect the evolution of conserved proteins and why might clustered histone repeats be occurring in asexuals? This research focuses on understanding the evolution and selective pressures occurring on repetitive histone genes in asexual vs sexual lineages. Whole genome duplications occurring in Potamopyrgus antipodarum have created different ploidy snails leading to different modes of reproduction. This fresh water snail species can be sexual (diploid) or asexual (triploid and tetraploids). Sexual reproduction is not only important for genetic diversity, but it is key in the process of natural selection by allowing beneficial mutations to arise in populations and disposing of deleterious ones. But what happens in asexual populations that consist of self-cloning females? Specifically, what is happening within their histone genes? Histone genes are highly conserved and can vary in their repetitiveness across the Eukaryotic kingdom. Yet, when comparing sexual and asexual lineages of P. antipodarum we find far more histones genes in asexual lineage then one would expect just from the genome duplications that have occurred. Why do asexual lineages need an exaggerate amount of histone genes? Are they all functional? Is natural selection acting in the same way on these asexual histone genes as it does on sexual ones. This project focuses on the four sequences of histone genes: H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. A statistical approach is used to calculate the rate of substitutions at synonymous sites compared to the rate of substitutions at nonsynonymous sites between repetitive histone genes within a single individual that represents a lineage. The lack of knowledge in functionality and location of these genes, raises the question as to if these genes are under any selective pressure and if that differs in snails of sexual vs asexual reproduction.


## Data
### master/data/deviate_histones_raw
The data has been generated with DeviaTE software. There are 26 lineages of *Potamopyrgus antipodarum*, and 1 out group, and include the sequences of H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 genes
## Methods
### master/script/
### master/analysis/
## Results
### master/output/

